# gh-pages-side-by-side-code-examples

Example of creating side-by-side code examples for different languages.  I want to be able to view them in an friendly way using a browser (hence Github Pages).

To view in Github Pages, click on the link below.

<http://tomkraljevic.github.io/gh-pages-side-by-side-code-examples/>

<br>
<hr>

# 1.  Goals

**Goal: To provide a side-by-side framework for adding code examples in many different environments**

* Think of this as a rosetta stone for examples.  If you are familiar with one environment, but want to explore a different language or library, find the use case you are interested in and compare the implementation for the environment you know and compare it with the others.

**Goal: It should be easy to add an example**

* Adding a new example requires a minimum of files to touch.
* Actual ugly html is autogenerated.
* *gen.py* generator tool has error messages that are human readable.

**Goal: Encourage lots of different people to add an example**

* Use a public github repository.
* Provide docs making it clear how to contribute.

**Goal: It should be easy to add a new kind of example**

* e.g. a new language type.

**Goal: Examples should be testable**

* Example code snippets should be runnable.
* Jenkins job should run them automatically.

**Goal: Provide a library of runnable and easy-to-access answers to common questions**

* A library of "How do I do this?" answers.

**Goal: It should be possible to cut-and-paste a "stable" link for a given example**

* When responding to a question "on the internet" (i.e. something searchable with historical memory), it's good to provide a stable link.
* The relative_hyperlink() method in *gen.py* calculates this stable hyperlink and embeds it into the generated examples.html document.
* The hyperlink depends on the example name ('ex.txt'), not the directory names.
* Note:  The numbering is automatic and can change if new items are inserted.  As such, the numbering is not stable.  If items are only "appended", then the number sequence is stable.

**Goal: Provide support for tags**

* TODO

## Non-goals

* While providing big-data examples is certainly in scope, providing examples "on" big-data is not.  The data sets actually in the repo should be small.  An example of a good practice would be to provide a runnable example on a small dataset with a non-running comment pointing to where to find the big data.
* Creating a new blog framework.
* Human language internationalization.

<br>
<hr>

# 2.  Adding a new example

## Conventions

* *gen.py* is PEP-8 compliant.  Please keep it that way.
* Intellij IDEA (or PyCharm) was used to develop *gen.py*, and has built-in PEP-i support.
* Data files should be small (in general, less than 1 MB).  'git clone'-ing the repo should be fast, so it's fast for a new person to clone and make a contribution.  Re-use data files whenever possible.

## The generation process

The *gen.py* tool creates the result examples.html file.
(Look at the trivial Makefile.)

### Tools required to run the generator

* Python (*gen.py* was developed with Python 2.7)
* npm
* npm's markdown command-line tool

I installed the markdown tool on my Macbook Pro with the following command:

```
npm install markdown-to-html -g
```


### Commands to run

On Macbook Pro:

```
make
git add examples.html
git commit
git push
```

## Top-level directory layout

**README.md**   
This file.

**Makefile**   
Very simple helper for running the generation process.

**./gen.py**  
Tool to generate examples.html.

**examples**  
The example code.  New files generally want to go somewhere in here.

**examples.html**   
Generated from files in the examples directory.

**data**   
Data used by examples.

**index.html**   
What gh-pages points to.

**packages**   
Some helper packages used by the examples (ex package for R).

**static**   
Static resources (jquery, bootstrap, highlight.js).


## Adding a new case for an existing example

Usually this is as easy as just dropping in one more file with the right name that *gen.py* knows to look for.  You need to add that file in the one specific already-existing example directory.  No metadata files need to be updated.

Unless you want to add a totally new kind of example, in which case read on...


## Adding a new kind of example (i.e. language type)

*gen.py* has the following three arrays.  (The names are named weirdly to satisfy PEP-8 and still visually line up nicely.)

```
    _lang__________ = ["lang-r", "lang-r"]
    _tabs_to_check_ = ["R",      "h2o-R"]
    _files_to_check = ["ex-R.R", "ex-h2o.R"]
```

Adding a new kind of example means adding an element to each of these arrays.

* The lang array is the name of the language according to highlight.js.  If you add a new less-common language, the highlight.js package might need updating (see the 'static' directory).  Note the following additional languages were added to the set of "checked language boxes" when downloading highlight.js.
    * R
    * Scala
* The tabs array is the name of the tab as seen by the user.
* The files array is the name of the file checked for by *gen.py*.


## Adding a new example

* Create a new directory.  The name of the directory is not used for any of the generated output.

* Add your new directory to the 'idx' file of the category that contains it.

* Add a 'ex.txt' file in your new directory.  This is one line that contains the example name.

* Add a 'ex.md' file in your new directory.  This is a markdown file that describes the example.  For consistency with the generated code from *gen.py*, this should not include H1, H2 or H3 tags.  This may include H4, H5, H6 tags.

* The example description markdown file 'ex.md' is converted to html using the node **markdown** tool.

* Create a single code file for each kind of example you want to provide.
  * ex-R.R
  * ex-h2o.R
  * ... etc.

* Code example files are copied verbatim into the generated examples.html.

> The names of the code example files must match exactly what *gen.py* expects.

### Finding data files

The ex R package has a locate function which you may find helpful.


## Adding a new category (or subcategory)

* Create a new directory.  The name of the directory is not used for any of the generated output.

* Add your new directory to the idx file of the category that contains it.

* Add a 'cat.txt' file in your new directory.  This is one line that contains the category name.

* Add an 'idx' file in your new directory.  'idx' is a multi line file.  each line contains the name of a directory.  each directory is either a sub-category or an example.  items appear in the order they are included in the idx file.

* Note that the top-level category (Data Science Examples) is special and generally ignored by *gen.py* so that "Data Science Examples" isn't repeated all over the place.


<br>
<hr>

# 3. Testing

Testing will be driven by a jenkins job that makes some assumptions.

* Assumption:  H2O can run anywhere (in terms of cwd) on the local machine.  The test must provide an absolute path to h2o.  (This is why the "locate" methods is useful.)
* Assumption:  H2O is running with 1 node on the local machine.  It will be started ahead of time.  h2o.init() will work and find an h2o.
* Assumption:  Tests will be run one at a time on a machine with 8 GB RAM.
* Assumption:  H2O will be started with -Xmx5g.
* Assumption:  Each example has a "fresh" H2O with no keys in the K/V store.
* Assumption:  Tests can be run in any order.
* Assumption:  The test itself will be started with the cwd that the test file lives in.
* Assumption:  The ex package will be installed when R is run.
* Assumption:  The H2O package will be installed when R is run.

Other do's and dont's:

* Examples should not call h2o.shutdown().
* H2O R tests will be run via:
  *  R -f ex-h2o.R
  
### TODO:   

* Set up Jenkins job
* How to see the results?  Would be nice to have a per-example red/green light somehow.

## How to locally build and install the ex R package

I did this with RStudio...  TODO: Need better instructions here.
